---
permalink: /
title: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

I am deeply passionate about the transformative potential of artificial intelligence, particularly its applications in healthcare and data science. Inspired by famous figures like Ray Dalio and Dr. Li Feifei, I am aware that tackling complex challenges requires both deep intellectual curiosity and a systematic, principled approach. This is important because my dedicated career goal is to produce feasible invention patents and utilize them in my start-up tech business in 3–5 years. The COVID-19 pandemic, with its unique set of challenges, including my advisor’s illness and my mother’s deepening struggle with depression, has been a catalyst for my academic and career development. It is a deep personal connection that has galvanized me to employ technology to enhance social good.

My academic and professional background has equipped me with a diverse skill set ideal for PhD-level research. I acquired a B.Sc. in computer science and an M.Eng. in ECE from the University of Victoria. I developed a strong grasp of core principles in AI, data mining, and database systems. I furthered my knowledge in graduate studies, specializing in convex optimization for machine learning and information theory. I conducted an amateur survey about blockchain applications in medical records in 2019 and accomplished a literature review about LLMs for mental health in my M.Eng. project. As for work experience, I have demonstrated my communication and mentoring skills as a teaching assistant, supporting students with Q&A and managing coursework. Besides, as a data engineer in my past work, I provided technical consulting, crafting data-driven solutions and collaborating across teams to address complex challenges. In addition, passing the China National Legal Professional Qualification Examination has cultivated my analytical abilities, fostered an independent thinking approach, and improved my writing skills.

Through formal coursework, self-directed learning, or collaborative projects, I approach new challenges with a focus on understanding foundational principles, followed by applying those insights to real-world problems. That is why I believe my combination of communication skills, effective information consumption, and technical expertise is integral to my future PhD program. Firstly, my work experiences have instilled strong work habits, such as presentation skills, team collaboration, and project management. Secondly, I am adept at synthesizing vast information and drawing actionable insights. As for technical expertise, I possess strong critical thinking abilities, which enable me to break down complex problems and propose solutions. Also, my proficiency in data analysis and visualization allows me to work with large datasets, uncover meaningful patterns, and present findings vividly. I have a solid grasp of theoretical concepts like convex optimization and information theory for research applications.

To sum up, I am confident in my ability to contribute to research projects and make a lasting impact on the academic community. I look forward to collaborating in research to tackle real-world challenges and advance the field of AI, particularly in healthcare.
